docs/networkpolicy.md, before:

# Nephe NetworkPolicy

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Basic Concepts](#basic-concepts)
  - [Antrea Internal NetworkPolicy](#antrea-internal-networkpolicy)
  - [Cloud Network Security Group](#cloud-network-security-group)
- [Implementation](#implementation)
  - [AddressGroup NSG](#addressgroup-nsg)
  - [AppliedTo NSG](#appliedto-nsg)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg)
  - [ANP Rule realization](#anp-rule-realization)
- [AWS Example](#aws-example)
  - [List Virtual Machines](#list-virtual-machines)
  - [List External Entities](#list-external-entities)
  - [Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy](#create-a-sample-antrea-networkpolicy)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg-1)
  - [AddressGroup NSG](#addressgroup-nsg-1)
  - [AppliedToGroup NSG](#appliedtogroup-nsg)
  - [Verify ANP Rule realization on VM](#verify-anp-rule-realization-on-vm)
- [Azure Example](#azure-example)
  - [List Virtual Machines](#list-virtual-machines-1)
  - [List External Entities](#list-external-entities-1)
  - [Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy](#create-a-sample-antrea-networkpolicy-1)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg-2)
  - [AddressGroup ASG](#addressgroup-asg)
  - [AppliedTo ASG](#appliedto-asg)
  - [Verify ANP Rule realization on VM](#verify-anp-rule-realization-on-vm-1)
<!-- /toc -->

## Introduction

The Nephe project does not consume the Antrea `NetworkPolicy`(ANP) CR directly.
The ANP CR is used by [Antrea](https://antrea.io/) project, where
`antrea-controller` pod watches for the Antrea `NetworkPolicy` CR and
converts each ANP CR to an Antrea internal [NetworkPolicy](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/pkg/apis/controlplane/v1beta2/types.go#L202)
object for further processing. This Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object
will be used by the `Nephe Controller` to enforce the network policies on Public
Cloud Virtual Machines.

`Nephe Controller` registers with the antrea `API server`, to receive all
the events related to `AddressGroups`, `AppliedToGroups` and
`NetworkPolicies` objects. `Nephe Controller` translates these
NetworkPolicy related objects to the corresponding cloud constructs. Each antrea
internal NetworkPolicy object will result in a combination of one
or more cloud network security groups. The `AddressGroups` field will be
translated to a cloud NSG, and it will be embedded in `source/destination` field
of a cloud network security rule. The `AppliedToGroups` will translated to a
NSG, and it will be attached to the public cloud VMs. Currently, enforcing ANP
is only supported on AWS and Azure clouds.

## Basic Concepts

This section gives a brief introduction about Antrea internal NetworkPolicy
object and cloud network security groups. These two concepts are the basics to
understand how `nephe-controller` realizes network polices on Public Cloud
VMs. If you are already familiar with these two concepts, please skip this
section and proceed to the [Implementation](#implementation) section.

### Antrea Internal NetworkPolicy

Each Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object contains a `Name` and `Namespace`
field that uniquely identifies an Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object.
`Name` and `Namespace` corresponds to user facing Antrea `NetworkPolicy`(ANP).
It contains list of rules and a list of references to the appliedToGroups and
addressGroups.

Each `Rule` contains:

- A direction field.
- A list of services (port).
- To/From field - IPBlock and reference to a list `AddressGroups`.

An `AddressGroup` is used in `To/From` field of an ANP Rule. Each
`AddressGroup` contains the following:

- An auto-generated name, which uniquely identifies an `AdressGroup`.
- A list of GroupMembers, each may contain references of ExternalEntities if
  applicable.
- A list of Endpoint, each contains IP address and ports.

An `AppliedToGroup` is used in `AppliedTo` field of an ANP. Each `AppliedToGroup`
contains the following:

- An auto-generated name (namespace-less) uniquely identifies a `AppliedToGroup`.
- A list of GroupMembers, each may contain references of ExternalEntities if
  applicable.
- A list of Endpoints, each contains IP address and ports.

### Cloud Network Security Group

Cloud Network Security Group (NSG) is a whitelist, which is at a VPC/VNET level.
It is uniquely identified by its Name or an ID. It contains zero or more Network
Interface Cards (NIC). A NIC may be associated with zero or more NSGs. A NSG
contains Ingress and Egress rules.

**An Ingress Rule includes**:

- IPBlocks - a list of source IP blocks of the permitted incoming traffic.
- Ports - a list of source ports of the permitted incoming traffic.
- SecurityGroups - a list of securityGroups from which incoming traffic is
  permitted.

**An Egress Rule includes**:

- IPBlocks - a list of destination IP blocks of the permitted outgoing traffic.
- Ports - a list of destination ports of the permitted outgoing traffic.
- SecurityGroups - a list of securityGroups to which outgoing traffic is
  permitted.

## Implementation

The `Nephe Controller` creates two types of network security groups (NSGs) to
enforce network polices on public cloud VMs, which are called as
`AddressGroup NSG` and `AppliedTo NSG`. An Antrea internal NetworkPolicy is
realized on the cloud VMs via a combination of `AddressGroup NSG` and
`AppliedTo NSG`. For better performance/scalability, all cloud calls to manage
Nephe created NSGs are designed to be asynchronous.

### AddressGroup NSG

AddressGroup NSG internally is referred to as cloud membership only security
group, as it contains only the GroupMembers. This type of NSG is created with a
prefix `nephe-ag-<adressGroupName>`, where the prefix `ag-` implies it is just
an `AddressGroup` based NSG.

- Each Antrea AddressGroup is mapped to zero or more cloud membership only
`AddressGroup NSG`, and zero or more IP blocks.
- Each `AddressGroup NSG` scope is at a VPC level, and which will not have
any ingress/egress rules.

### AppliedTo NSG

AppliedTo NSG will be applied to the Public Cloud VMs. This type of NSG is
created with a prefix `nephe-at-<appliedToGroupName>`, where the prefix `at-`
implies it is an `AppliedTo` based NSG.

- Each Antrea AppliedGroup is mapped to zero or more cloud `AppliedTo NSG`
- Each `AppliedTo NSG` scope is at a VPC level, and which will have ingress/egress
  rules associated with it.

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

Each `AddressGroup NSG` and IPBlocks uniquely maps `To/From` fields in the user
configured Antrea `NetworkPolicy`. Each `AppliedTo NSG` uniquely maps to an
`AppliedTo` field in the Antrea `NetworkPolicy`. Each `AppliedTo NSG` creates
ingress and egress rules based on cloud membership only `AddressGroup NSG` or
IPBlocks associated with an Antrea `NetworkPolicy`.

### ANP Rule realization

It is desirable to show what Antrea `NetworkPolicies` are associated with a
specific cloud resource and the Antrea `NetworkPolicies` realization status.
Each cloud resource shall keep track of cloud `AppliedTo NSG` it is associated
with. An Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is considered to be successfully applied to
a network resource, when the following expectations are met.

- Its `AppliedTo NSG` to which the network resource is a member of,
  are created/updated with no error.
- Its `AddressGroup NSG` are created/updated with no error.

## AWS Example

In this example, AWS cloud is configured using CloudProviderAccount (CPA) and
the cloud resource filter is configured using CloudEntitySelector (CES) to
import 3 VMs that belong to vpc `vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad`.

### List Virtual Machines

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachine resources
that are imported:

```bash
kubectl get virtualmachines -A
kubectl get vm -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                  CLOUD-PROVIDER   REGION      VIRTUAL-PRIVATE-CLOUD   STATE     AGENTED
aws-ns      i-0033eb4a6c846451d   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
aws-ns      i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
aws-ns      i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
```

### List External Entities

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve ExternalEntity resources
corresponding to each VM:

```bash
kubectl get externalentities -A
kubectl get ee -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                                 AGE
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d   58m
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   58m
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   58m
```

### Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy

A sample Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is shown below, which specifies an Ingress rule
allowing TCP traffic on port 22. The `from` field is an `externalEntitySelector`
with matching labels as `nephe.io/owner-vm: i-0033eb4a6c846451d`.  And the `appliedTo`
field is an `externalEntitySelector` with a matching label as
`nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine`.

```bash
# Add Policy to Allow SSH
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-ssh
  namespace: aws-ns
spec:
  priority: 1
  appliedTo:
  - externalEntitySelector:
      matchLabels:
        nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    from:
    - externalEntitySelector:
        matchLabels:
          nephe.io/owner-vm: i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 22
```

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

`Nephe Controller` converts the sample ANP into a combination of
`AddressGroup NSG` and `AppliedTo NSG` and attaches the NSGs to the respective
VMs, as shown in the below image.

![ANP realization on AWS VM](./assets/aws-ssh-allow-vm.png "AWS Cloud NSG")

### AddressGroup NSG

The AddressGroup `9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89` corresponds to the
`from` field of ANP. This group contains only one ExternalEntity as the Group
Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AddressGroup into an
`AddressGroup NSG` with NSG name as
`nephe-ag-9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89`.

```bash
kubectl describe addressgroups 9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
```

```text
# Output
Name:         9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABrQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NrEgoQ==
Kind:  AddressGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
Events:                <none>
```

### AppliedToGroup NSG

The AppliedToGroup `c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347` corresponds to the
`appliedTo` field of the ANP. This group contains all the 3 ExternalEntities as
the Group Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AppliedToGroup into
an `AppliedTo NSG` with NSG name as
`nephe-at-c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347` and it will attach this
NSG to all the 3 VMs.

```bash
kubectl describe appliedtogroups c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
```

```text
# Output
Name:         c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABwg==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NpddTg==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABrQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NrEgoQ==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-05e3fb66922d56e0a
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABnw==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//MhLhOg==
Kind:  AppliedToGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
Events:                <none>
```

### Verify ANP Rule realization on VM

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachinePolicy
resources, which shows the ANP rules realization on each VM.

```bash
kubectl get vmp -A
kubectl get virtualmachinepolicy -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   VM NAME               REALIZATION   COUNT
aws-ns      i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   SUCCESS       1
aws-ns      i-0033eb4a6c846451d   SUCCESS       1
aws-ns      i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   SUCCESS       1
```

## Azure Example

In this example, Azure cloud is configured using CloudProviderAccount (CPA) and
the cloud resource filter is configured using CloudEntitySelector (CES) to
import 3 VMs that belong to vnet `nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9`.

### List Virtual Machines

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachine resources
that are imported:

```bash
kubectl get virtualmachines -A
kubectl get vm -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                          CLOUD-PROVIDER   REGION    VIRTUAL-PRIVATE-CLOUD        STATE     AGENTED
azure-ns    centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
azure-ns    rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
azure-ns    ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
```

### List External Entities

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve ExternalEntity resources
corresponding to each VM:

```bash
kubectl get externalentities -A
kubectl get ee -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                                         AGE
azure-ns    virtualmachine-centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   3m59s
azure-ns    virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     3m59s
azure-ns    virtualmachine-ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   3m59s
```

### Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy

A sample Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is shown below, which specifies an Ingress rule
allowing TCP traffic on port 22. The `from` field is an externalEntitySelector
with matching labels as `nephe.io/owner-vm: rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892`.
And the `appliedTo` field is an externalEntitySelector with a matching
label as `nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine`.

```bash
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-ssh
  namespace: azure-ns
spec:
  priority: 1
  appliedTo:
  - externalEntitySelector:
      matchLabels:
        nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    from:
    - externalEntitySelector:
        matchLabels:
          nephe.io/owner-vm: rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 22
```

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

In Azure each network interface is a member of only one network security group,
but a network interface can be a member of multiple application security
group (ASG). `Nephe Controller` converts the sample ANP into a combination of
`AddressGroup ASG` and `AppliedTo ASG`. These ASGs are then associated with
respective network interface of the VMs as shown in the below image.

![ANP realization on Azure VM](./assets/azure-ssh-allow-vm.png "Azure Cloud NSG")

![ASG on Azure VM](./assets/azure-asg.png "Azure cloud ASG")

### AddressGroup ASG

The AddressGroup `da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28` corresponds to the
`from` field of ANP. This group contains only one ExternalEntity as the Group
Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AddressGroup into an
`AddressGroup ASG` with ASG name as
`nephe-ag-da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28`.

```bash
kubectl describe addressgroups da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
```

```text
# Output
Name:         da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH4g==
Kind:  AddressGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
Events:                <none>
```

### AppliedTo ASG

The AppliedToGroup `ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560` corresponds to the
`appliedTo` field of the ANP. This group contains all the 3 ExternalEntities as
the Group Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AppliedToGroup into
an `AppliedTo ASG` with ASG name as
`nephe-at-ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560` and it will attach this
ASG to all the 3 VMs

```bash
kubectl describe appliedtogroups ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
```

```text
# Output
Name:         ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBA==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH1w==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBg==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJHcg==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH4g==
Kind:  AppliedToGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
Events:                <none>
```

### Verify ANP Rule realization on VM

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachinePolicy
resources, which shows the ANP rules realization on each VM.

```bash
kubectl get vmp -A
kubectl get virtualmachinepolicy -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   VM NAME                       REALIZATION   COUNT
azure-ns    ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   SUCCESS       1
azure-ns    centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   SUCCESS       1
azure-ns    rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     SUCCESS       1
```

Commit message:

parse cloud rule descriptions and support user created rules (#207)
Signed-off-by: Alexander Liu <alliu@vmware.com>

docs/networkpolicy.md, after:

# Nephe NetworkPolicy

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Basic Concepts](#basic-concepts)
  - [Antrea Internal NetworkPolicy](#antrea-internal-networkpolicy)
  - [Cloud Network Security Group](#cloud-network-security-group)
- [Implementation](#implementation)
  - [AddressGroup NSG](#addressgroup-nsg)
  - [AppliedTo NSG](#appliedto-nsg)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg)
  - [ANP Rule realization](#anp-rule-realization)
- [AWS Example](#aws-example)
  - [List Virtual Machines](#list-virtual-machines)
  - [List External Entities](#list-external-entities)
  - [Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy](#create-a-sample-antrea-networkpolicy)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg-1)
  - [AddressGroup NSG](#addressgroup-nsg-1)
  - [AppliedToGroup NSG](#appliedtogroup-nsg)
  - [Verify ANP Rule realization on VM](#verify-anp-rule-realization-on-vm)
- [Azure Example](#azure-example)
  - [List Virtual Machines](#list-virtual-machines-1)
  - [List External Entities](#list-external-entities-1)
  - [Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy](#create-a-sample-antrea-networkpolicy-1)
  - [Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG](#mapping-antrea-networkpolicy-to-nsg-2)
  - [AddressGroup ASG](#addressgroup-asg)
  - [AppliedTo ASG](#appliedto-asg)
  - [Verify ANP Rule realization on VM](#verify-anp-rule-realization-on-vm-1)
<!-- /toc -->

## Introduction

The Nephe project does not consume the Antrea `NetworkPolicy`(ANP) CR directly.
The ANP CR is used by [Antrea](https://antrea.io/) project, where
`antrea-controller` pod watches for the Antrea `NetworkPolicy` CR and
converts each ANP CR to an Antrea internal [NetworkPolicy](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/main/pkg/apis/controlplane/v1beta2/types.go#L202)
object for further processing. This Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object
will be used by the `Nephe Controller` to enforce the network policies on Public
Cloud Virtual Machines.

`Nephe Controller` registers with the antrea `API server`, to receive all
the events related to `AddressGroups`, `AppliedToGroups` and
`NetworkPolicies` objects. `Nephe Controller` translates these
NetworkPolicy related objects to the corresponding cloud constructs. Each antrea
internal NetworkPolicy object will result in a combination of one
or more cloud network security groups. The `AddressGroups` field will be
translated to a cloud NSG, and it will be embedded in `source/destination` field
of a cloud network security rule. The `AppliedToGroups` will translated to a
NSG, and it will be attached to the public cloud VMs. Currently, enforcing ANP
is only supported on AWS and Azure clouds.

## Basic Concepts

This section gives a brief introduction about Antrea internal NetworkPolicy
object and cloud network security groups. These two concepts are the basics to
understand how `nephe-controller` realizes network polices on Public Cloud
VMs. If you are already familiar with these two concepts, please skip this
section and proceed to the [Implementation](#implementation) section.

### Antrea Internal NetworkPolicy

Each Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object contains a `Name` and `Namespace`
field that uniquely identifies an Antrea internal NetworkPolicy object.
`Name` and `Namespace` corresponds to user facing Antrea `NetworkPolicy`(ANP).
It contains list of rules and a list of references to the appliedToGroups and
addressGroups.

Each `Rule` contains:

- A direction field.
- A list of services (port).
- To/From field - IPBlock and reference to a list `AddressGroups`.

An `AddressGroup` is used in `To/From` field of an ANP Rule. Each
`AddressGroup` contains the following:

- An auto-generated name, which uniquely identifies an `AdressGroup`.
- A list of GroupMembers, each may contain references of ExternalEntities if
  applicable.
- A list of Endpoint, each contains IP address and ports.

An `AppliedToGroup` is used in `AppliedTo` field of an ANP. Each `AppliedToGroup`
contains the following:

- An auto-generated name (namespace-less) uniquely identifies a `AppliedToGroup`.
- A list of GroupMembers, each may contain references of ExternalEntities if
  applicable.
- A list of Endpoints, each contains IP address and ports.

### Cloud Network Security Group

Cloud Network Security Group (NSG) is a whitelist, which is at a VPC/VNET level.
It is uniquely identified by its Name or an ID. It contains zero or more Network
Interface Cards (NIC). A NIC may be associated with zero or more NSGs. A NSG
contains Ingress and Egress rules.

**An Ingress Rule includes**:

- IPBlocks - a list of source IP blocks of the permitted incoming traffic.
- Ports - a list of source ports of the permitted incoming traffic.
- SecurityGroups - a list of securityGroups from which incoming traffic is
  permitted.

**An Egress Rule includes**:

- IPBlocks - a list of destination IP blocks of the permitted outgoing traffic.
- Ports - a list of destination ports of the permitted outgoing traffic.
- SecurityGroups - a list of securityGroups to which outgoing traffic is
  permitted.

Nephe supports creating user custom rules in NSGs created by Nephe, and these
custom rules will be preserved regardless of NetworkPolicy configuration.
However, there are certain limitations on user rules:

- Nephe does not actively maintain user rules. Therefore, changes to
  NetworkPolicies can result in changes to NSG members and the deletion of NSGs,
  which may result in changes or deletion of user rules.
- Nephe uses rule descriptions to track information, so users should not modify
  Nephe rule descriptions and should not create custom rules with descriptions
  in the same format.

## Implementation

The `Nephe Controller` creates two types of network security groups (NSGs) to
enforce network polices on public cloud VMs, which are called as
`AddressGroup NSG` and `AppliedTo NSG`. An Antrea internal NetworkPolicy is
realized on the cloud VMs via a combination of `AddressGroup NSG` and
`AppliedTo NSG`. For better performance/scalability, all cloud calls to manage
Nephe created NSGs are designed to be asynchronous.

### AddressGroup NSG

AddressGroup NSG internally is referred to as cloud membership only security
group, as it contains only the GroupMembers. This type of NSG is created with a
prefix `nephe-ag-<adressGroupName>`, where the prefix `ag-` implies it is just
an `AddressGroup` based NSG.

- Each Antrea AddressGroup is mapped to zero or more cloud membership only
`AddressGroup NSG`, and zero or more IP blocks.
- Each `AddressGroup NSG` scope is at a VPC level, and which will not have
any ingress/egress rules.

### AppliedTo NSG

AppliedTo NSG will be applied to the Public Cloud VMs. This type of NSG is
created with a prefix `nephe-at-<appliedToGroupName>`, where the prefix `at-`
implies it is an `AppliedTo` based NSG.

- Each Antrea AppliedGroup is mapped to zero or more cloud `AppliedTo NSG`
- Each `AppliedTo NSG` scope is at a VPC level, and which will have ingress/egress
  rules associated with it.

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

Each `AddressGroup NSG` and IPBlocks uniquely maps `To/From` fields in the user
configured Antrea `NetworkPolicy`. Each `AppliedTo NSG` uniquely maps to an
`AppliedTo` field in the Antrea `NetworkPolicy`. Each `AppliedTo NSG` creates
ingress and egress rules based on cloud membership only `AddressGroup NSG` or
IPBlocks associated with an Antrea `NetworkPolicy`.

### ANP Rule realization

It is desirable to show what Antrea `NetworkPolicies` are associated with a
specific cloud resource and the Antrea `NetworkPolicies` realization status.
Each cloud resource shall keep track of cloud `AppliedTo NSG` it is associated
with. An Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is considered to be successfully applied to
a network resource, when the following expectations are met.

- Its `AppliedTo NSG` to which the network resource is a member of,
  are created/updated with no error.
- Its `AddressGroup NSG` are created/updated with no error.

## AWS Example

In this example, AWS cloud is configured using CloudProviderAccount (CPA) and
the cloud resource filter is configured using CloudEntitySelector (CES) to
import 3 VMs that belong to vpc `vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad`.

### List Virtual Machines

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachine resources
that are imported:

```bash
kubectl get virtualmachines -A
kubectl get vm -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                  CLOUD-PROVIDER   REGION      VIRTUAL-PRIVATE-CLOUD   STATE     AGENTED
aws-ns      i-0033eb4a6c846451d   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
aws-ns      i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
aws-ns      i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   AWS              us-west-1   vpc-0d6bb6a4a880bd9ad   running   false
```

### List External Entities

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve ExternalEntity resources
corresponding to each VM:

```bash
kubectl get externalentities -A
kubectl get ee -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                                 AGE
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d   58m
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   58m
aws-ns      virtualmachine-i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   58m
```

### Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy

A sample Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is shown below, which specifies an Ingress rule
allowing TCP traffic on port 22. The `from` field is an `externalEntitySelector`
with matching labels as `nephe.io/owner-vm: i-0033eb4a6c846451d`.  And the `appliedTo`
field is an `externalEntitySelector` with a matching label as
`nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine`.

```bash
# Add Policy to Allow SSH
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-ssh
  namespace: aws-ns
spec:
  priority: 1
  appliedTo:
  - externalEntitySelector:
      matchLabels:
        nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    from:
    - externalEntitySelector:
        matchLabels:
          nephe.io/owner-vm: i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 22
```

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

`Nephe Controller` converts the sample ANP into a combination of
`AddressGroup NSG` and `AppliedTo NSG` and attaches the NSGs to the respective
VMs, as shown in the below image.

![ANP realization on AWS VM](./assets/aws-ssh-allow-vm.png "AWS Cloud NSG")

### AddressGroup NSG

The AddressGroup `9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89` corresponds to the
`from` field of ANP. This group contains only one ExternalEntity as the Group
Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AddressGroup into an
`AddressGroup NSG` with NSG name as
`nephe-ag-9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89`.

```bash
kubectl describe addressgroups 9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
```

```text
# Output
Name:         9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABrQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NrEgoQ==
Kind:  AddressGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 9938be4e-784d-582b-b22a-d12a82d6fd89
Events:                <none>
```

### AppliedToGroup NSG

The AppliedToGroup `c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347` corresponds to the
`appliedTo` field of the ANP. This group contains all the 3 ExternalEntities as
the Group Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AppliedToGroup into
an `AppliedTo NSG` with NSG name as
`nephe-at-c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347` and it will attach this
NSG to all the 3 VMs.

```bash
kubectl describe appliedtogroups c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
```

```text
# Output
Name:         c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABwg==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NpddTg==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-0033eb4a6c846451d
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABrQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//NrEgoQ==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-i-05e3fb66922d56e0a
    Namespace:  aws-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABnw==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//MhLhOg==
Kind:  AppliedToGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 c98c24e5-c4b9-59d8-8dc7-3c7d9ce96347
Events:                <none>
```

### Verify ANP Rule realization on VM

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachinePolicy
resources, which shows the ANP rules realization on each VM.

```bash
kubectl get vmp -A
kubectl get virtualmachinepolicy -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   VM NAME               REALIZATION   COUNT
aws-ns      i-0a20bae92ddcdb60b   SUCCESS       1
aws-ns      i-0033eb4a6c846451d   SUCCESS       1
aws-ns      i-05e3fb66922d56e0a   SUCCESS       1
```

## Azure Example

In this example, Azure cloud is configured using CloudProviderAccount (CPA) and
the cloud resource filter is configured using CloudEntitySelector (CES) to
import 3 VMs that belong to vnet `nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9`.

### List Virtual Machines

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachine resources
that are imported:

```bash
kubectl get virtualmachines -A
kubectl get vm -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                          CLOUD-PROVIDER   REGION    VIRTUAL-PRIVATE-CLOUD        STATE     AGENTED
azure-ns    centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
azure-ns    rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
azure-ns    ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   Azure            westus2   nephe-vnet-e4d5cd72369467d9  running   false
```

### List External Entities

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve ExternalEntity resources
corresponding to each VM:

```bash
kubectl get externalentities -A
kubectl get ee -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   NAME                                         AGE
azure-ns    virtualmachine-centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   3m59s
azure-ns    virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     3m59s
azure-ns    virtualmachine-ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   3m59s
```

### Create a sample Antrea NetworkPolicy

A sample Antrea `NetworkPolicy` is shown below, which specifies an Ingress rule
allowing TCP traffic on port 22. The `from` field is an externalEntitySelector
with matching labels as `nephe.io/owner-vm: rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892`.
And the `appliedTo` field is an externalEntitySelector with a matching
label as `nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine`.

```bash
apiVersion: crd.antrea.io/v1alpha1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-ssh
  namespace: azure-ns
spec:
  priority: 1
  appliedTo:
  - externalEntitySelector:
      matchLabels:
        nephe.io/kind: virtualmachine
  ingress:
  - action: Allow
    from:
    - externalEntitySelector:
        matchLabels:
          nephe.io/owner-vm: rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 22
```

### Mapping Antrea NetworkPolicy To NSG

In Azure each network interface is a member of only one network security group,
but a network interface can be a member of multiple application security
group (ASG). `Nephe Controller` converts the sample ANP into a combination of
`AddressGroup ASG` and `AppliedTo ASG`. These ASGs are then associated with
respective network interface of the VMs as shown in the below image.

![ANP realization on Azure VM](./assets/azure-ssh-allow-vm.png "Azure Cloud NSG")

![ASG on Azure VM](./assets/azure-asg.png "Azure cloud ASG")

### AddressGroup ASG

The AddressGroup `da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28` corresponds to the
`from` field of ANP. This group contains only one ExternalEntity as the Group
Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AddressGroup into an
`AddressGroup ASG` with ASG name as
`nephe-ag-da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28`.

```bash
kubectl describe addressgroups da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
```

```text
# Output
Name:         da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH4g==
Kind:  AddressGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 da4fcbea-ea4c-57c2-b310-44dbed754b28
Events:                <none>
```

### AppliedTo ASG

The AppliedToGroup `ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560` corresponds to the
`appliedTo` field of the ANP. This group contains all the 3 ExternalEntities as
the Group Members. `Nephe Controller` will convert this AppliedToGroup into
an `AppliedTo ASG` with ASG name as
`nephe-at-ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560` and it will attach this
ASG to all the 3 VMs

```bash
kubectl describe appliedtogroups ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
```

```text
# Output
Name:         ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
Namespace:    
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>
API Version:  controlplane.antrea.io/v1beta2
Group Members:
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBA==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH1w==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBg==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJHcg==
  External Entity:
    Name:       virtualmachine-rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892
    Namespace:  azure-ns
  Ips:
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//CgABBQ==
    AAAAAAAAAAAAAP//FGJH4g==
Kind:  AppliedToGroup
Metadata:
  Creation Timestamp:  <nil>
  UID:                 ab957ac3-b12c-52ca-a5d1-7aba1ab9c560
Events:                <none>
```

### Verify ANP Rule realization on VM

The following kubectl command can be used to retrieve VirtualMachinePolicy
resources, which shows the ANP rules realization on each VM.

```bash
kubectl get vmp -A
kubectl get virtualmachinepolicy -A
```

```text
# Output
NAMESPACE   VM NAME                       REALIZATION   COUNT
azure-ns    ubuntu-host-vmlinux-0-16140   SUCCESS       1
azure-ns    centos-host-vmlinux-0-16117   SUCCESS       1
azure-ns    rhel-host-vmlinux-0-15892     SUCCESS       1
```
